---
id: 8y9c7
title: Design guide
file_version: 1.1.2
app_version: 1.3.8
---

## What is this document?

This document sets the ground rules for developing a cohesive style and user experience throughout the app. It covers rules and best practices for css and html, as well as the interaction between the two.

* * *

## Rules

### CSS

1.  Use SCSS for editing styles. Never edit the compiled css files directly.
    
2.  Application styles extend Bootstrap functionality (Bootstrap v 5.3).
    
    1.  Grid
        
3.  SCSS rules are organised in separate files, each encapsulating a block and its related elements and modifiers (see BEM), and imported into the main styles.scss file, which in turn is compiled into the main styles.css stylesheet.
    
    1.  Separate files are _members._
        
    2.  Members are named using a prefixed underscore, ie. _\_cards.scss._ This tells the compiler to ignore the member.
        
    3.  Members are imported with **@import _member_** in the _styles.scss_ file.
        
    4.  Members are stored either in the _/baseline_ directory, for global rules, or the _/custom_ directory, for localised rules.
        
4.  Use baseline CSS classes as often as possible.
    
5.  Follow the BEM style-guide rules of naming and utilisation.
    
6.  The box-sizing property of **all** elements is set to border-box, meaning margins, padding and borders are included in size properties.
    

### HTML

1.  Do **not** use divs for interactive content, such as buttons and links. This ensures that intended functionality of interactive components are not lost (ie. focusing buttons, pressing buttons with enter, button not showing up as button in accessibility views etc.)
    
2.  Use _nav_ for navigation menus.
    
3.  Use _section_ where its natural.
    

## BEM

### Blocks

A block is an entity that is meaningful on its own.

### Elements

### Modifiers

## CSS directory tree

```bash
|-- styles.scss
    
```

`📄 vurdermeg/baseapp/static`<br/>
|-- styles.scss // main document, imports all subdocuments and compiles to styles.css<br/>
|-- baseline // folder for baseline stylesheets<br/>
|-- buttons.scss<br/>
|-- cards.scss<br/>
|-- navs.scss<br/>
'-- custom // folder for page-specific stylesheets<br/>
|-- teacher-new-assessment.scss

<br/>

This file was generated by Swimm. [Click here to view it in the app](https://app.swimm.io/repos/Z2l0aHViJTNBJTNBdnVyZGVybWVnJTNBJTNBVGhvbWFzU3RvcmhhdWc=/docs/8y9c7).
